A woman who lost 10 stone (63.5kg) after using a drug meant for people with diabetes says the weight-loss treatment has been "life-changing". Lizz Adair, from Market Weighton, was overweight most of her life until she bought daily weight-loss injection Saxenda from an online pharmacy. Doctors said the popularity of the drug had led to a shortage for diabetic patients who needed it. They also warned buying the drug online was "dangerous". Saxenda, also known as GLP1 or liraglutide, suppresses appetite and is only prescribed by doctors to help people with a high body mass index (BMI). Ms Adair found she could buy the drug over the internet.  "My friend used it and [the weight loss] was so radical I just thought 'oh my goodness, this is amazing, this is a miracle drug, I need to get some'," she said. "When [the weight] comes off it's amazing," she said. "I'll always remember the first time I dropped under 14 stone (89kg).  "Now I can walk miles and miles and my feet aren't aching the next day, I'm not laid up in bed.  "It's definitely life-changing." Some doctors have said some people who need the drug for health reasons cannot access it because of people buying it for weight loss. Dr David Sheehan, of Nettleham Medical Practice near Lincoln, said people should always have a GP consultation because of potentially serious side effects and the dangers of buying the drug online. "We're still having some difficulty getting the GLP1 medication for our diabetic patients," said Dr Sheehan. "There are people who really need it for their health, either with significant obesity or with diabetes." In August, a shortage of the similar drug Ozempic meant a diabetic Lincoln man was told the drug was not available because it was popular with celebrities as a weight-loss aid. Dr Sheehan said buying the drugs online "really is dangerous". Up to one in 100 people experience rare side effects from the drug including reduced kidney function and kidney failure, according to Lloyds Pharmacy. Anyone experiencing these side effects should contact their doctor immediately.  In July, other weight-loss drugs were investigated for a link to suicide. Ms Adair said, for her, the benefits outweighed the risks and side effects, but the shortage of the drug meant she would "think twice" about using it if it took it away from a patient in need. She said, instead, manufacturers should increase supply of the drug to meet demand. "It shouldn't be people's responsibility to worry whether they get these drugs over someone else," she said. "Hopefully they'll make larger quantities to satisfy everybody." The Department of Health and Social Care said the supply of Saxenda was expected to increase by the middle of 2024.  Saxenda manufacturer Novo Nordisk said the similar drug Ozempic, taken weekly rather than daily, could suffer "intermittent supply shortages" into 2025. Follow BBC East Yorkshire and Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.