The winner of BBC One show Survivor has described the moment he was announced champion as the "best moment" of his life. Matthew Haywood landed a £100,000 prize after overcoming 17 other contestants who were marooned on a tropical island and split into two tribes. The 21-year-old, of Workington, Cumbria, described being "overwhelmed". He said it had been difficult keeping his win a secret in the months since the episode was filmed. Speaking to BBC Radio Cumbria, he said: "I don't think it will ever sink in. I was in tears [when it was announced] and thinking about my friends and family at home. "It's four or five months since it was filmed and only me and my mam and dad knew [I'd won]. "We had a little party at my house on Saturday and all my friends were shocked. I'll always remember the look on their faces when I was announced as the winner." Saturday's final episode saw the hospitality worker compete against three remaining players before he was crowned Sole Survivor by host Joel Dommett. Recalling 34 days of physical and emotional struggles as well as a limited diet which saw him lose about 2.5st (16kg), he said: "I kept thinking this will be worth it in the end. "I'd take a few moments to be in my own thoughts and calm myself down because it was intense. "You have to play a good strategic social game [to win]. I was the youngest contestant and knew people would underestimate me because of that. "I was learning from the people who knew more about the show and then voting them out. You have to vote out the threats because if someone has played the game better than you then you won't win. "It was a big balancing act. The people voted out [through the series] end up picking the winner so you also need to keep nice relationships with them." With the contestants having kept in contact since the end of filming, there have already been nights out in London and Manchester and Mr Haywood said he would now need to organise a get-together in his home town. Asked what will come next, he replied: "I've had messages from my old schools asking me to go along and speak to the youngsters, which is great. "I'm ready for any opportunities that come along. I'm up for anything." Follow BBC Cumbria on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.