Hundreds of people from the worlds of football, theatre and film have attended a memorial service to remember the life of Bill Kenwright. The Liverpool-born impresario and Everton's longest serving chairman died at the age of 78 in October. Coleen Rooney, Tony Bellew and Kate McCann were among those at the service at Liverpool's Anglican Cathedral. Kenwright donated money to support the McCanns in the aftermath of their daughter Madeleine's disappearance. Coleen Rooney, the wife of football star Wayne Rooney, was seen entering the service at Liverpool cathedral dressed in black. Rooney, currently manager of Birmingham City, was handed his first-team debut in August 2002 by then manager David Moyes. Boxing star Bellew, who came second in I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here earlier this month, arrived with former Everton player Tony Hibbert, who made 265 appearances for the club. Mayor of Greater Manchester Andy Burnham was also in attendance at the service, as well as former Everton manager Frank Lampard and a number of players including club captain Seamus Coleman. Mr Burnham was among those offering tributes to Kenwright after his death, praising him for his reaction to the Hillsborough disaster, where 97 Liverpool fans were killed due to a crush at a match between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest on 15 April 1989. He said: "I saw the care he had for the Hillsborough families when they were going through everything that they went through. "That was Bill Kenwright. "Before people think about anything else, that was him, that was the man, just somebody of warmth, of generosity." Kenwright produced more than 500 West End, Broadway, UK touring and international theatre productions, films and music albums over the course of his career. He worked with Sir Tim Rice and Lord Andrew Lloyd-Webber on Joseph and the Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat, Jesus Christ Superstar and Evita and produced the hit West End show Blood Brothers.  He had been on the board at Everton since 1989, taking over as chairman at Goodison Park in 2004. Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.