Hundreds of Christmas presents are to be delivered to Birmingham Children's Hospital, in memory of a three-year-old girl who died from cancer.  Gracie Tudor, from Stourbridge, died in October after being diagnosed with neuroblastoma. Dad, Stephen, said he and Gracie's mum, Claire, wanted to help other children and families affected by the illness. More than 200 donated toys will be handed out by family and friends at the hospital on Tuesday. Gracie received chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery at the hospital, after she was was diagnosed in early 2023. The cancer, most common in children under five, is treatable on the NHS but survival rates are poor where relapses occur. Gracie died after the disease spread to her bones. A sum of £160,000 had been raised with a view to experimental treatment in the US.  "The money was to be used to help Gracie," Mr Tudor explained. "We can't help her anymore, but can help others with it." Mr Tudor said the family wanted to use the funds to set up The Gracie Tudor Foundation to "help other families and children with neuroblastoma". He added they had received some financial support from charities during his daughter's treatment and wanted to do "similar things" to support other people. "Gracie still lives on really," he said. Mr Tudor said hundreds of donations, set to be gifted to children, parents and nurses, were pulled together in a "couple of days". After posting the appeal on social media, he said members of the public donated piles of gifts including Lego sets, Barbie dolls and Play-Doh, as well as hampers and chocolate selection boxes.  He described the public response as "amazing", with people in Australia among those taking part. "We want to give children a present or a couple of presents each, to make their Christmas," he said. "To make them happy really." Follow BBC West Midlands on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.