Former Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's party has used an artificial intelligence voice clone of him to campaign from prison. Mr Khan had his three-year sentence for corruption suspended in August, but remains in jail. His Pakistan Tehreek-e Insaf (PTI) party used AI to make an audio clip to address an internet "virtual rally". Mr Khan's speech was generated from text he had written from prison and had approved by his lawyers, PTI said. The four-minute audio message, marred by internet disruptions, was played over an AI-generated image which appeared to be speaking. Global network monitor NetBlocks said the streaming disruptions were consistent with previous attempts to censor Mr Khan. The voice clone of Mr Khan said: "My fellow Pakistanis, I would first like to praise the social media team for this historic attempt. "Maybe you all are wondering how I am doing in jail. Today, my determination for real freedom is very strong." "Our party is not allowed to hold public rallies," Mr Khan said, as he urged supporters to turn out in large numbers at the country's general elections set for 8 February.  "Our people are being kidnapped and their families are being harassed." Disruptions to livestreaming have raised concerns about transparency around the upcoming elections, with internet users complaining of slow internet speeds and throttling. PTI said the event had was viewed by six million people across YouTube, X and Facebook. PTI's media adviser, Zulfiqar Bukhari, said the party had been subject to a massive crackdown with Mr Khan banned from any public or political engagement. "We thought it'd be best to encourage voters with something coming directly from Mr Khan," Bukhari said. He accused the interim government of "pulling stunts like slowing down internet across the country in efforts to reduce the outreach" of the online political rally. The international cricket star-turned-politician was sentenced to three years in jail on 5 August for not declaring money earned from selling gifts he received during his time in office from 2018-2022. As a result of that conviction, he was barred from contesting an election for five years. Mr Khan's lawyers say more than 100 charges have been brought against him since his removal from power last year. These include leaking state secrets and organising violent protests. Various arrest warrants have been issued in relation to these charges. Mr Khan says all the charges against him are politically motivated, which authorities have denied. © 2023 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.